# Cervical-Cancer-ML-Project

Cervical Cancer was once the leading cause for death for women in the United States and continues to be a major global threat. There were an estimated 570, 000 cases of cervical cancer and 311, 000 deaths from the disease in 2018 (Arbyn et al., 2018) (https://www.thelancet.com/journals/langlo/article/PIIS2214-109X(19)30482-6/fulltext). Although the prevalence of cervical cancer has steadily decreased, there remains major challenges in diagnosis and predicting the onset of disease. One such challenge is the financial burden of the multiple screening tests that are required to confirm a cervical cancer diagnosis. As shown in the Recommended Primary HPV Screening Algorithm (Image 1), patients in screening who test positive for risk factors, such as Human Papilloman Virus (HPV), must undergo cytology or colopscopy. Further assessment of risk and a diagnosis of cervical cancer is then confirmed by biopsy. These procedures not only serve as financial and temporal barriers for diagnosis, but also require the onset of disease or risk factors for an accurate diagnosis. What if we could predict the onset or risk of Cervical Cancer and circumvent the aformentioned issues?
Ultimately, this project aims to use machine learning tasks (logistic regression and artificial neural networks (ANN)) to predict onset of cervical cancer from risk factors. Our goal is to answer to accurately classify the onset of cancer from patient records obtained from'Hospital Universitario de Caracas' in Caracas, Venezuela and deposited into the UCI Machine Learning Repository (https://archive.ics.uci.edu/ml/datasets/Cervical+cancer+%28Risk+Factors%29). Additionally, this project explores if recursive feature elimination with cross-validation can be used to identify features of importance to reduce the number of features needed to retain a high accuracy diagnosis for the onset of cancer. Patient datasets are oen sparse and missing several feature values. If an equivalent or higher accuracy with fewer features (that are less-invasive)can be obtained, we would begin the steps to combat the aformentioned barriers in cervical cancer diagnosis.
